downloads.md, before:

---
id: downloads
title: Downloads
layout: single
---
Download the starter kit to get everything you need to
[get started with React](/react/docs/getting-started.html).

<div class="buttons-unit downloads">
  <a href="/react/downloads/react-{{site.react_version}}.zip" class="button">
    Download Starter Kit {{site.react_version}}
  </a>
</div>

## Individual Downloads

#### <a href="http://fb.me/react-{{site.react_version}}.min.js">React Core {{site.react_version}} (production)</a>
The compressed, production version of React core

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/react-{{site.react_version}}.min.js"></script>
```

#### <a href="http://fb.me/react-{{site.react_version}}.js">React Core {{site.react_version}} (development)</a>
The uncompressed, development version of React core with inline documentation.

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/react-{{site.react_version}}.js"></script>
```

#### <a href="http://fb.me/react-with-addons-{{site.react_version}}.min.js">React With Add-Ons {{site.react_version}} (production)</a>
The compressed, production version of React with [add-ons](/react/docs/addons.html).

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/react-with-addons-{{site.react_version}}.min.js"></script>
```

#### <a href="http://fb.me/react-with-addons-{{site.react_version}}.js">React With Add-Ons {{site.react_version}} (development)</a>
The uncompressed, development version of React with [add-ons](/react/docs/addons.html).

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/react-with-addons-{{site.react_version}}.js"></script>
```

#### <a href="http://fb.me/JSXTransformer-{{site.react_version}}.js">JSX Transform</a>
The JSX transformer used to support [XML syntax](/react/docs/jsx-in-depth.html) in JavaScript.

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/JSXTransformer-{{site.react_version}}.js"></script>
```

All scripts are also available via [CDNJS](http://cdnjs.com/#react).

## Bower

```sh
$ bower install --save react
```

## NPM

```sh
$ npm install -g react-tools
```

Commit message:

Add info about dev vs. prod builds
Also moved the dev builds first because that's what most people will want.

downloads.md, after:

---
id: downloads
title: Downloads
layout: single
---
Download the starter kit to get everything you need to
[get started with React](/react/docs/getting-started.html). The starter kit includes React, the in-browser JSX transformer, and some simple example apps.

<div class="buttons-unit downloads">
  <a href="/react/downloads/react-{{site.react_version}}.zip" class="button">
    Download Starter Kit {{site.react_version}}
  </a>
</div>

## Development vs. Production Builds

We provide two versions of React: an uncompressed version for development and a minified version for production. The development version includes extra warnings about common mistakes, whereas the production version includes extra performance optimizations and strips all error messages.

If you're just starting out, make sure to use the development version.

## Individual Downloads

#### <a href="http://fb.me/react-{{site.react_version}}.js">React {{site.react_version}} (development)</a>
The uncompressed, development version of React core with inline documentation.

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/react-{{site.react_version}}.js"></script>
```

#### <a href="http://fb.me/react-{{site.react_version}}.min.js">React {{site.react_version}} (production)</a>
The compressed, production version of React core.

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/react-{{site.react_version}}.min.js"></script>
```

#### <a href="http://fb.me/react-with-addons-{{site.react_version}}.js">React with Add-Ons {{site.react_version}} (development)</a>
The uncompressed, development version of React with [add-ons](/react/docs/addons.html).

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/react-with-addons-{{site.react_version}}.js"></script>
```

#### <a href="http://fb.me/react-with-addons-{{site.react_version}}.min.js">React with Add-Ons {{site.react_version}} (production)</a>
The compressed, production version of React with [add-ons](/react/docs/addons.html).

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/react-with-addons-{{site.react_version}}.min.js"></script>
```

#### <a href="http://fb.me/JSXTransformer-{{site.react_version}}.js">JSX Transformer</a>
The JSX transformer used to support [XML syntax](/react/docs/jsx-in-depth.html) in JavaScript.

```html
<script src="http://fb.me/JSXTransformer-{{site.react_version}}.js"></script>
```

All scripts are also available via [CDNJS](http://cdnjs.com/libraries/react/).

## Bower

```sh
$ bower install --save react
```

## NPM

```sh
$ npm install -g react-tools
```
