content/community/conferences.md, before:

---
id: conferences
title: Conferences
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/conferences.html
redirect_from:
  - "docs/conferences.html"
---

Do you know of a local React.js conference? Add it here! (Please keep the list chronological)

## Upcoming Conferences

### React Alicante 2018
September 13-15 in Alicante, Spain

[Website](http://reactalicante.es) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactAlicante)

### React Boston 2018
September 29-30 in Boston, Massachusetts USA

[Website](http://www.reactboston.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactBoston)

### ReactJS Day 2018
October 5 in Verona, Italy

[Website](http://2018.reactjsday.it) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactjsday)

### React Conf Brasil 2018
October 20 in Sao Paulo, Brazil

[Website](http://reactconfbr.com.br) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactconfbr) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactconf)

### React Conf 2018
October 25-26 in Henderson, Nevada USA

[Website](https://conf.reactjs.org/)

### ReactNext 2018
November 4 in Tel Aviv, Israel

[Website](https://react-next.com) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactNext) - [Facebook](https://facebook.com/ReactNext2016)

### React Day Berlin 2018
November 30, Berlin, Germany

[Website](https://reactday.berlin) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactdayberlin) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactdayberlin/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1EYHmQYBUJjkmL6OtK4rlw)

## Past Conferences

### React.js Conf 2015
January 28 & 29 in Facebook HQ, CA

[Website](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/) - [Schedule](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr)

<iframe title="React.js Conf 2015 Keynote" width="650" height="315" src="//www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/KVZ-P-ZI6W4?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### ReactEurope 2015
July 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### Reactive 2015
November 2-4 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactive2015.com/) - [Schedule](https://reactive2015.com/schedule_speakers.html#schedule)

### React.js Conf 2016
February 22 & 23 in San Francisco, CA

[Website](http://conf.reactjs.com/) - [Schedule](http://conf.reactjs.com/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS0M8Q95RIc2lOM6nc77q1IY)

### React Amsterdam 2016
April 16 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](https://react.amsterdam/2016) - [Videos](https://youtu.be/sXDZBxbRRag?list=PLNBNS7NRGKMG3uLrm5fgY02hJ87Wzb4IU)

### ReactEurope 2016
June 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### ReactRally 2016
August 25-26 in Salt Lake City, UT

[Website](http://www.reactrally.com/) - [Schedule](http://www.reactrally.com/#/schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUD4kD-wL_zYSfU3tIYsb4WqfFQzO_EjQ)

### ReactNext 2016
September 15 in Tel Aviv, Israel

[Website](http://react-next.com/) - [Schedule](http://react-next.com/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3BT8hh3yTTYxbLQy_wbk2w)

### ReactNL 2016
October 13 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands - [Schedule](http://reactnl.org/#program)

[Website](http://reactnl.org/)

### Reactive 2016
October 26-28 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactiveconf.com/)

### React Remote Conf 2016
October 26-28 online

[Website](https://allremoteconfs.com/react-2016) - [Schedule](https://allremoteconfs.com/react-2016#schedule)

### Agent Conference 2017
January 20-21 in Dornbirn, Austria

[Website](http://agent.sh/)

### React Conf 2017
March 13-14 in Santa Clara, CA

[Website](http://conf.reactjs.org/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7HSd1sk07uU&list=PLb0IAmt7-GS3fZ46IGFirdqKTIxlws7e0)

### React London 2017
March 28th at the [QEII Centre, London](http://qeiicentre.london/)

[Website](http://react.london/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2j9rSur_mnk&list=PLW6ORi0XZU0CFjdoYeC0f5QReBG-NeNKJ)

### React Amsterdam 2017
April 21st in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](https://react.amsterdam) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactamsterdam) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NQyL-Dm7Kig&list=PLNBNS7NRGKMHxfm0CcYNuINLdRw7r4a9M)

### ReactEurope 2017
May 18th & 19th in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### Chain React 2017
July 10-11 in Portland, Oregon USA

[Website](https://infinite.red/ChainReactConf) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainreactconf) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cz5BzwgATpc&list=PLFHvL21g9bk3RxJ1Ut5nR_uTZFVOxu522)

### React Rally 2017
August 24-25 in Salt Lake City, Utah USA

[Website](http://www.reactrally.com) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactrally) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f4KnHNCZcH4&list=PLUD4kD-wL_zZUhvAIHJjueJDPr6qHvkni)

### React Native EU 2017
September 6-7 in Wroclaw, Poland

[Website](http://react-native.eu/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=453oKJAqfy0&list=PLzUKC1ci01h_hkn7_KoFA-Au0DXLAQZR7)

### ReactNext 2017
September 8-10 in Tel Aviv, Israel

[Website](http://react-next.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactNext) - [Videos (Hall A)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eKXQw5kR86c&list=PLMYVq3z1QxSqq6D7jxVdqttOX7H_Brq8Z), [Videos (Hall B)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1InokWxYGnE&list=PLMYVq3z1QxSqCZmaqgTXLsrcJ8mZmBF7T)

### ReactFoo 2017
September 14 in Bangalore, India

[Website](https://reactfoo.in/2017/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3G6tMg29Wnw&list=PL279M8GbNsespKKm1L0NAzYLO6gU5LvfH)

### React Boston 2017
September 23-24 in Boston, Massachusetts USA

[Website](http://www.reactboston.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactBoston) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2iPE5l3cl_s&list=PL-fCkV3wv4ub8zJMIhmrrLcQqSR5XPlIT)

### React Alicante 2017
September 28-30 in Alicante, Spain

[Website](http://reactalicante.es) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactAlicante) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UMZvRCWo6Dw&list=PLd7nkr8mN0sWvBH_s0foCE6eZTX8BmLUM)

### ReactJS Day 2017
October 6 in Verona, Italy

[Website](http://2017.reactjsday.it) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactjsday) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUqqJPIgjNU&list=PLWK9j6ps_unl293VhhN4RYMCISxye3xH9)

### React Conf Brasil 2017
October 7 in Sao Paulo, Brazil

[Website](http://reactconfbr.com.br) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactconfbr) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactconf/)

### State.js Conference 2017
October 13 in Stockholm, Sweden

[Website](https://statejs.com/)

### React Summit 2017
October 21 in Lagos, Nigeria

[Website](https://reactsummit2017.splashthat.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/DevCircleLagos/) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/DevCLagos/)

### ReactiveConf 2017
October 25–27, Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactiveconf.com) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BOKxSFB2hOE&list=PLa2ZZ09WYepMB-I7AiDjDYR8TjO8uoNjs)

### React Seoul 2017
November 4 in Seoul, South Korea

[Website](http://seoul.reactjs.kr/en)

### React Day Berlin 2017
December 2, Berlin, Germany

[Website](https://reactday.berlin) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactdayberlin) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactdayberlin/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UnNLJvHKfSY&list=PL-3BrJ5CiIx5GoXci54-VsrO6GwLhSHEK)

### ReactFoo Pune
January 19-20, Pune, India

[Website](https://reactfoo.in/2018-pune/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactFoo)

### AgentConf 2018
January 25-28 in Dornbirn, Austria

[Website](http://agent.sh/)

### ReactFest 2018
March 8-9 in London, UK

[Website](https://reactfest.uk/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactFest) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YOCrJ5vRCnw&list=PLRgweB8YtNRt-Sf-A0y446wTJNUaAAmle)

### Reactathon 2018
March 20-22 in San Francisco, USA

[Website](https://www.reactathon.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactathon) - [Videos (fundamentals)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=knn364bssQU&list=PLRvKvw42Rc7OWK5s-YGGFSmByDzzgC0HP), [Videos (advanced day1)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=57hmk4GvJpk&list=PLRvKvw42Rc7N0QpX2Rc5CdrqGuxzwD_0H), [Videos (advanced day2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1hvQ8p8q0a0&list=PLRvKvw42Rc7Ne46QAjWNWFo1Jf0mQdnIW)

### React Native Camp UA 2018
March 31 in Kiev, Ukraine

[Website](http://reactnative.com.ua/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactnativecamp) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactnativecamp/)

### React Amsterdam 2018
April 13 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](https://react.amsterdam) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactamsterdam) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactamsterdam)

### React Finland 2018
April 24-26 in Helsinki, Finland

[Website](https://react-finland.fi/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactFinland)

### <React.NotAConf /> 2018
April 28 in Sofia, Bulgaria

[Website](http://react-not-a-conf.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactnotaconf) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1614950305478021/)

### ReactEurope 2018
May 17-18 in Paris, France

[Website](https://www.react-europe.org) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactEurope) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ReactEurope)

### ReactFoo Mumbai
May 26 in Mumbai, India

[Website](https://reactfoo.in/2018-mumbai/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactfoo) - [Past talks](https://hasgeek.tv)

### Chain React 2018
July 11-13 in Portland, Oregon USA

[Website](https://infinite.red/ChainReactConf) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainreactconf)

### React Rally
August 16-17 in Salt Lake City, Utah USA

[Website](http://www.reactrally.com) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactrally)

### React DEV Conf China
August 18 in Guangzhou, China

[Website](https://react.w3ctech.com)

### ReactFoo Delhi 
August 18 in Delhi, India

[Website](https://reactfoo.in/2018-delhi/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactfoo) - [Past talks](https://hasgeek.tv)

### Byteconf React 2018
August 31 streamed online, via Twitch

[Website](https://byteconf.com) - [Twitch](https://twitch.tv/byteconf) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/byteconf)

### React Native EU 2018
September 5-6 in Wrocław, Poland

[Website](https://react-native.eu) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/react_native_eu) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactnativeeu)

##

Commit message:

add React Amsterdam 2019 conference date (#1166)

content/community/conferences.md, after:

---
id: conferences
title: Conferences
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/conferences.html
redirect_from:
  - "docs/conferences.html"
---

Do you know of a local React.js conference? Add it here! (Please keep the list chronological)

## Upcoming Conferences

### React Alicante 2018
September 13-15 in Alicante, Spain

[Website](http://reactalicante.es) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactAlicante)

### React Boston 2018
September 29-30 in Boston, Massachusetts USA

[Website](http://www.reactboston.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactBoston)

### ReactJS Day 2018
October 5 in Verona, Italy

[Website](http://2018.reactjsday.it) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactjsday)

### React Conf Brasil 2018
October 20 in Sao Paulo, Brazil

[Website](http://reactconfbr.com.br) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactconfbr) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactconf)

### React Conf 2018
October 25-26 in Henderson, Nevada USA

[Website](https://conf.reactjs.org/)

### ReactNext 2018
November 4 in Tel Aviv, Israel

[Website](https://react-next.com) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactNext) - [Facebook](https://facebook.com/ReactNext2016)

### React Day Berlin 2018
November 30, Berlin, Germany

[Website](https://reactday.berlin) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactdayberlin) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactdayberlin/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1EYHmQYBUJjkmL6OtK4rlw)

### React Amsterdam 2019
April 12 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](https://react.amsterdam) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactamsterdam) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactamsterdam)

## Past Conferences

### React.js Conf 2015
January 28 & 29 in Facebook HQ, CA

[Website](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/) - [Schedule](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr)

<iframe title="React.js Conf 2015 Keynote" width="650" height="315" src="//www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/KVZ-P-ZI6W4?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### ReactEurope 2015
July 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### Reactive 2015
November 2-4 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactive2015.com/) - [Schedule](https://reactive2015.com/schedule_speakers.html#schedule)

### React.js Conf 2016
February 22 & 23 in San Francisco, CA

[Website](http://conf.reactjs.com/) - [Schedule](http://conf.reactjs.com/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS0M8Q95RIc2lOM6nc77q1IY)

### React Amsterdam 2016
April 16 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](https://react.amsterdam/2016) - [Videos](https://youtu.be/sXDZBxbRRag?list=PLNBNS7NRGKMG3uLrm5fgY02hJ87Wzb4IU)

### ReactEurope 2016
June 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### ReactRally 2016
August 25-26 in Salt Lake City, UT

[Website](http://www.reactrally.com/) - [Schedule](http://www.reactrally.com/#/schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUD4kD-wL_zYSfU3tIYsb4WqfFQzO_EjQ)

### ReactNext 2016
September 15 in Tel Aviv, Israel

[Website](http://react-next.com/) - [Schedule](http://react-next.com/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3BT8hh3yTTYxbLQy_wbk2w)

### ReactNL 2016
October 13 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands - [Schedule](http://reactnl.org/#program)

[Website](http://reactnl.org/)

### Reactive 2016
October 26-28 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactiveconf.com/)

### React Remote Conf 2016
October 26-28 online

[Website](https://allremoteconfs.com/react-2016) - [Schedule](https://allremoteconfs.com/react-2016#schedule)

### Agent Conference 2017
January 20-21 in Dornbirn, Austria

[Website](http://agent.sh/)

### React Conf 2017
March 13-14 in Santa Clara, CA

[Website](http://conf.reactjs.org/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7HSd1sk07uU&list=PLb0IAmt7-GS3fZ46IGFirdqKTIxlws7e0)

### React London 2017
March 28th at the [QEII Centre, London](http://qeiicentre.london/)

[Website](http://react.london/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2j9rSur_mnk&list=PLW6ORi0XZU0CFjdoYeC0f5QReBG-NeNKJ)

### React Amsterdam 2017
April 21st in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](https://react.amsterdam) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactamsterdam) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NQyL-Dm7Kig&list=PLNBNS7NRGKMHxfm0CcYNuINLdRw7r4a9M)

### ReactEurope 2017
May 18th & 19th in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### Chain React 2017
July 10-11 in Portland, Oregon USA

[Website](https://infinite.red/ChainReactConf) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainreactconf) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cz5BzwgATpc&list=PLFHvL21g9bk3RxJ1Ut5nR_uTZFVOxu522)

### React Rally 2017
August 24-25 in Salt Lake City, Utah USA

[Website](http://www.reactrally.com) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactrally) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f4KnHNCZcH4&list=PLUD4kD-wL_zZUhvAIHJjueJDPr6qHvkni)

### React Native EU 2017
September 6-7 in Wroclaw, Poland

[Website](http://react-native.eu/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=453oKJAqfy0&list=PLzUKC1ci01h_hkn7_KoFA-Au0DXLAQZR7)

### ReactNext 2017
September 8-10 in Tel Aviv, Israel

[Website](http://react-next.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactNext) - [Videos (Hall A)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eKXQw5kR86c&list=PLMYVq3z1QxSqq6D7jxVdqttOX7H_Brq8Z), [Videos (Hall B)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1InokWxYGnE&list=PLMYVq3z1QxSqCZmaqgTXLsrcJ8mZmBF7T)

### ReactFoo 2017
September 14 in Bangalore, India

[Website](https://reactfoo.in/2017/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3G6tMg29Wnw&list=PL279M8GbNsespKKm1L0NAzYLO6gU5LvfH)

### React Boston 2017
September 23-24 in Boston, Massachusetts USA

[Website](http://www.reactboston.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactBoston) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2iPE5l3cl_s&list=PL-fCkV3wv4ub8zJMIhmrrLcQqSR5XPlIT)

### React Alicante 2017
September 28-30 in Alicante, Spain

[Website](http://reactalicante.es) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactAlicante) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UMZvRCWo6Dw&list=PLd7nkr8mN0sWvBH_s0foCE6eZTX8BmLUM)

### ReactJS Day 2017
October 6 in Verona, Italy

[Website](http://2017.reactjsday.it) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactjsday) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUqqJPIgjNU&list=PLWK9j6ps_unl293VhhN4RYMCISxye3xH9)

### React Conf Brasil 2017
October 7 in Sao Paulo, Brazil

[Website](http://reactconfbr.com.br) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactconfbr) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactconf/)

### State.js Conference 2017
October 13 in Stockholm, Sweden

[Website](https://statejs.com/)

### React Summit 2017
October 21 in Lagos, Nigeria

[Website](https://reactsummit2017.splashthat.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/DevCircleLagos/) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/DevCLagos/)

### ReactiveConf 2017
October 25–27, Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactiveconf.com) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BOKxSFB2hOE&list=PLa2ZZ09WYepMB-I7AiDjDYR8TjO8uoNjs)

### React Seoul 2017
November 4 in Seoul, South Korea

[Website](http://seoul.reactjs.kr/en)

### React Day Berlin 2017
December 2, Berlin, Germany

[Website](https://reactday.berlin) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactdayberlin) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactdayberlin/) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UnNLJvHKfSY&list=PL-3BrJ5CiIx5GoXci54-VsrO6GwLhSHEK)

### ReactFoo Pune
January 19-20, Pune, India

[Website](https://reactfoo.in/2018-pune/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactFoo)

### AgentConf 2018
January 25-28 in Dornbirn, Austria

[Website](http://agent.sh/)

### ReactFest 2018
March 8-9 in London, UK

[Website](https://reactfest.uk/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactFest) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YOCrJ5vRCnw&list=PLRgweB8YtNRt-Sf-A0y446wTJNUaAAmle)

### Reactathon 2018
March 20-22 in San Francisco, USA

[Website](https://www.reactathon.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactathon) - [Videos (fundamentals)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=knn364bssQU&list=PLRvKvw42Rc7OWK5s-YGGFSmByDzzgC0HP), [Videos (advanced day1)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=57hmk4GvJpk&list=PLRvKvw42Rc7N0QpX2Rc5CdrqGuxzwD_0H), [Videos (advanced day2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1hvQ8p8q0a0&list=PLRvKvw42Rc7Ne46QAjWNWFo1Jf0mQdnIW)

### React Native Camp UA 2018
March 31 in Kiev, Ukraine

[Website](http://reactnative.com.ua/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactnativecamp) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactnativecamp/)

### React Amsterdam 2018
April 13 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](https://react.amsterdam) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactamsterdam) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactamsterdam)

### React Finland 2018
April 24-26 in Helsinki, Finland

[Website](https://react-finland.fi/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactFinland)

### <React.NotAConf /> 2018
April 28 in Sofia, Bulgaria

[Website](http://react-not-a-conf.com/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactnotaconf) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1614950305478021/)

### ReactEurope 2018
May 17-18 in Paris, France

[Website](https://www.react-europe.org) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ReactEurope) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ReactEurope)

### ReactFoo Mumbai
May 26 in Mumbai, India

[Website](https://reactfoo.in/2018-mumbai/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactfoo) - [Past talks](https://hasgeek.tv)

### Chain React 2018
July 11-13 in Portland, Oregon USA

[Website](https://infinite.red/ChainReactConf) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainreactconf)

### React Rally
August 16-17 in Salt Lake City, Utah USA

[Website](http://www.reactrally.com) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactrally)

### React DEV Conf China
August 18 in Guangzhou, China

[Website](https://react.w3ctech.com)

### ReactFoo Delhi 
August 18 in Delhi, India

[Website](https://reactfoo.in/2018-delhi/) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactfoo) - [Past talks](https://hasgeek.tv)

### Byteconf React 2018
August 31 streamed online, via Twitch

[Website](https://byteconf.com) - [Twitch](https://twitch.tv/byteconf) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/byteconf)

### React Native EU 2018
September 5-6 in Wrocław, Poland

[Website](https://react-native.eu) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/react_native_eu) - [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/reactnativeeu)

##
