content/docs/context.md, before:

---
id: context
title: Context
permalink: docs/context.html
---

Context provides a way to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props down manually at every level.

In a typical React application, data is passed top-down (parent to child) via props, but this can be cumbersome for certain types of props (e.g. locale preference, UI theme) that are required by many components within an application. Context provides a way to share values like this between components without having to explicitly pass a prop through every level of the tree.

- [When to Use Context](#when-to-use-context)
- [API](#api)
  - [React.createContext](#reactcreatecontext)
  - [Provider](#provider)
  - [Consumer](#consumer)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [Dynamic Context](#dynamic-context)
  - [Consuming Multiple Contexts](#consuming-multiple-contexts)
  - [Accessing Context in Lifecycle Methods](#accessing-context-in-lifecycle-methods)
  - [Consuming Context with a HOC](#consuming-context-with-a-hoc)
  - [Forwarding Refs to Context Consumers](#forwarding-refs-to-context-consumers)
- [Caveats](#caveats)
- [Legacy API](#legacy-api)


## When to Use Context

Context is designed to share data that can be considered "global" for a tree of React components, such as the current authenticated user, theme, or preferred language. For example, in the code below we manually thread through a "theme" prop in order to style the Button component:

`embed:context/motivation-problem.js`

Using context, we can avoid passing props through intermediate elements:

`embed:context/motivation-solution.js`

> Note
>
> Don't use context just to avoid passing props a few levels down. Stick to cases where the same data needs to accessed in many components at multiple levels.

## API

### `React.createContext`

```js
const {Provider, Consumer} = React.createContext(defaultValue);
```

Creates a `{ Provider, Consumer }` pair.

Optionally accepts a default value to be passed to Consumers without a Provider ancestor.

### `Provider`

```js
<Provider value={/* some value */}>
```

A React component that allows Consumers to subscribe to context changes.

Accepts a `value` prop to be passed to Consumers that are descendants of this Provider. One Provider can be connected to many Consumers. Providers can be nested to override values deeper within the tree.

### `Consumer`

```js
<Consumer>
  {value => /* render something based on the context value */}
</Consumer>
```

A React component that subscribes to context changes.

Requires a [function as a child](/docs/render-props.html#using-props-other-than-render). The function receives the current context value and returns a React node. All consumers are re-rendered whenever the Provider value changes. Changes are determined by comparing the new and old values using the same algorithm as [`Object.is`](developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/is#Description). (This can cause some issues when passing objects as `value`: see [Caveats](#caveats).)

> Note
> 
> For more information about this pattern, see [render props](/docs/render-props.html).

## Examples

### Dynamic Context

A more complex example with dynamic values for the theme:

**theme-context.js**
`embed:context/theme-detailed-theme-context.js`

**themed-button.js**
`embed:context/theme-detailed-themed-button.js`

**app.js**
`embed:context/theme-detailed-app.js`

### Consuming Multiple Contexts

To keep context re-rendering fast, React needs to make each context consumer a separate node in the tree. 

`embed:context/multiple-contexts.js`

If two or more context values are often used together, you might want to consider creating your own render prop component that provides both.

### Accessing Context in Lifecycle Methods

Accessing values from context in lifecycle methods is a relatively common use case. Instead of adding context to every lifecycle method, you just need to pass it as a prop, and then work with it just like you'd normally work with a prop.

`embed:context/lifecycles.js`

### Consuming Context with a HOC

Some types of contexts are consumed by many components (e.g. theme or localization). It can be tedious to explicitly wrap each dependency with a `<Context.Consumer>` element. A [higher-order component](/docs/higher-order-components.html) can help with this.

For example, a button component might consume a theme context like so:

`embed:context/higher-order-component-before.js`

That's alright for a few components, but what if we wanted to use the theme context in a lot of places?

We could create a higher-order component called `withTheme`:

`embed:context/higher-order-component.js`

Now any component that depends on the theme context can easy subscribe to it using the `withTheme` function we've created:

`embed:context/higher-order-component-usage.js`

### Forwarding Refs to Context Consumers

One issue with the render prop API is that refs don't automatically get passed to wrapped elements. To get around this, use `React.forwardRef`:

**fancy-button.js**
`embed:context/forwarding-refs-fancy-button.js`

**app.js**
`embed:context/forwarding-refs-app.js`

## Caveats

Because context uses reference identity to determine when to re-render, there are some gotchas that could trigger unintentional renders in consumers when a provider's parent re-renders. For example, the code below will re-render all consumers every time the Provider re-renders because a new object is always created for `value`:

`embed:context/reference-caveats-problem.js`


To get around this, lift the value into the parent's state:

`embed:context/reference-caveats-solution.js`

## Legacy API

> Note
> 
> React previously shipped with an experimental context API. The old API will be supported in all 16.x releases, but applications using it should migrate to the new version. The legacy API will be removed in a future major React version. Read the [legacy context docs here](/docs/legacy-context.html).

Commit message:

Added inline child function caveat to Context docs

content/docs/context.md, after:

---
id: context
title: Context
permalink: docs/context.html
---

Context provides a way to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props down manually at every level.

In a typical React application, data is passed top-down (parent to child) via props, but this can be cumbersome for certain types of props (e.g. locale preference, UI theme) that are required by many components within an application. Context provides a way to share values like this between components without having to explicitly pass a prop through every level of the tree.

- [When to Use Context](#when-to-use-context)
- [API](#api)
  - [React.createContext](#reactcreatecontext)
  - [Provider](#provider)
  - [Consumer](#consumer)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [Dynamic Context](#dynamic-context)
  - [Consuming Multiple Contexts](#consuming-multiple-contexts)
  - [Accessing Context in Lifecycle Methods](#accessing-context-in-lifecycle-methods)
  - [Consuming Context with a HOC](#consuming-context-with-a-hoc)
  - [Forwarding Refs to Context Consumers](#forwarding-refs-to-context-consumers)
- [Caveats](#caveats)
- [Legacy API](#legacy-api)


## When to Use Context

Context is designed to share data that can be considered "global" for a tree of React components, such as the current authenticated user, theme, or preferred language. For example, in the code below we manually thread through a "theme" prop in order to style the Button component:

`embed:context/motivation-problem.js`

Using context, we can avoid passing props through intermediate elements:

`embed:context/motivation-solution.js`

> Note
>
> Don't use context just to avoid passing props a few levels down. Stick to cases where the same data needs to accessed in many components at multiple levels.

## API

### `React.createContext`

```js
const {Provider, Consumer} = React.createContext(defaultValue);
```

Creates a `{ Provider, Consumer }` pair.

Optionally accepts a default value to be passed to Consumers without a Provider ancestor.

### `Provider`

```js
<Provider value={/* some value */}>
```

A React component that allows Consumers to subscribe to context changes.

Accepts a `value` prop to be passed to Consumers that are descendants of this Provider. One Provider can be connected to many Consumers. Providers can be nested to override values deeper within the tree.

### `Consumer`

```js
<Consumer>
  {value => /* render something based on the context value */}
</Consumer>
```

A React component that subscribes to context changes.

Requires a [function as a child](/docs/render-props.html#using-props-other-than-render). The function receives the current context value and returns a React node. The function should be created inline, as shown in the example above, rather than being bound to the instance or otherwise cached. (Refer to the see [Caveats](#consumer-inline-function-as-a-child) section below for more.)

All consumers are re-rendered whenever the Provider value changes. Changes are determined by comparing the new and old values using the same algorithm as [`Object.is`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/is#Description). (This can cause some issues when passing objects as `value`: see [Caveats](#objectis).)

> Note
> 
> For more information about this pattern, see [render props](/docs/render-props.html).

## Examples

### Dynamic Context

A more complex example with dynamic values for the theme:

**theme-context.js**
`embed:context/theme-detailed-theme-context.js`

**themed-button.js**
`embed:context/theme-detailed-themed-button.js`

**app.js**
`embed:context/theme-detailed-app.js`

### Consuming Multiple Contexts

To keep context re-rendering fast, React needs to make each context consumer a separate node in the tree. 

`embed:context/multiple-contexts.js`

If two or more context values are often used together, you might want to consider creating your own render prop component that provides both.

### Accessing Context in Lifecycle Methods

Accessing values from context in lifecycle methods is a relatively common use case. Instead of adding context to every lifecycle method, you just need to pass it as a prop, and then work with it just like you'd normally work with a prop.

`embed:context/lifecycles.js`

### Consuming Context with a HOC

Some types of contexts are consumed by many components (e.g. theme or localization). It can be tedious to explicitly wrap each dependency with a `<Context.Consumer>` element. A [higher-order component](/docs/higher-order-components.html) can help with this.

For example, a button component might consume a theme context like so:

`embed:context/higher-order-component-before.js`

That's alright for a few components, but what if we wanted to use the theme context in a lot of places?

We could create a higher-order component called `withTheme`:

`embed:context/higher-order-component.js`

Now any component that depends on the theme context can easy subscribe to it using the `withTheme` function we've created:

`embed:context/higher-order-component-usage.js`

### Forwarding Refs to Context Consumers

One issue with the render prop API is that refs don't automatically get passed to wrapped elements. To get around this, use `React.forwardRef`:

**fancy-button.js**
`embed:context/forwarding-refs-fancy-button.js`

**app.js**
`embed:context/forwarding-refs-app.js`

## Caveats

### `Consumer` Inline Function as a Child

As an optimization to avoid doing unnecessary work, React currently stops rendering when it sees children that are equal to the most recently rendered children. This applies to the [function as a child](/docs/render-props.html#using-props-other-than-render) pattern used by `Consumer` as well which can cause unexpected behavior in some situations:
`embed:context/consumer-cached-function-as-a-child.js`

To avoid this scenario, we recommend declaring the child function inline:
`embed:context/consumer-inline-function-as-a-child.js`

### `Object.is`

Because context uses reference identity to determine when to re-render, there are some gotchas that could trigger unintentional renders in consumers when a provider's parent re-renders. For example, the code below will re-render all consumers every time the Provider re-renders because a new object is always created for `value`:

`embed:context/reference-caveats-problem.js`


To get around this, lift the value into the parent's state:

`embed:context/reference-caveats-solution.js`

## Legacy API

> Note
> 
> React previously shipped with an experimental context API. The old API will be supported in all 16.x releases, but applications using it should migrate to the new version. The legacy API will be removed in a future major React version. Read the [legacy context docs here](/docs/legacy-context.html).
