community/conferences.md, before:

---
id: conferences
title: Conferences
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/conferences.html
redirect_from: "docs/conferences.html"
---

## Upcoming Conferences

### Agent Conference 2017
January 20-21 in Dornbirn, Austria

[Website](http://agent.sh/)

### ReactEurope 2017
May 18th & 19th in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule)

### Chain React 2017
Summer 2017, Portland, Oregon USA

[Website](https://infinite.red/ChainReactConf) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainreactconf)

### React Native EU 2017
Fall 2017, Poland

[Website](http://react-native.eu/)


## Past Conferences

### React.js Conf 2015
January 28 & 29 in Facebook HQ, CA

[Website](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/) - [Schedule](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr)

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="//www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/KVZ-P-ZI6W4?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### ReactEurope 2015
July 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### Reactive 2015
November 2-4 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactive2015.com/) - [Schedule](https://reactive2015.com/schedule_speakers.html#schedule)

### React.js Conf 2016
February 22 & 23 in San Francisco, CA

[Website](http://conf.reactjs.com/) - [Schedule](http://conf.reactjs.com/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS0M8Q95RIc2lOM6nc77q1IY)

### React Amsterdam 2016
April 16 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](http://react.amsterdam) - [Videos](https://youtu.be/sXDZBxbRRag?list=PLNBNS7NRGKMG3uLrm5fgY02hJ87Wzb4IU)

### ReactEurope 2016
June 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### ReactRally 2016
August 25-26 in Salt Lake City, UT

[Website](http://www.reactrally.com/) - [Schedule](http://www.reactrally.com/#/schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUD4kD-wL_zYSfU3tIYsb4WqfFQzO_EjQ)

### ReactNext 2016
September 15 in Tel Aviv, Israel

[Website](http://react-next.com/) - [Schedule](http://react-next.com/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3BT8hh3yTTYxbLQy_wbk2w)

### ReactNL 2016
October 13 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands - [Schedule](http://reactnl.org/#program)

[Website](http://reactnl.org/)

### Reactive 2016
October 26-28 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactiveconf.com/)

### React Remote Conf 2016
October 26-28 online

[Website](https://allremoteconfs.com/react-2016) - [Schedule](https://allremoteconfs.com/react-2016#schedule)

Commit message:

Add React Amsterdam 2017 (#8235)
We've recently announced the dates for our next React Amsterdam edition, looking forward on adding it to the list.

community/conferences.md, after:

---
id: conferences
title: Conferences
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/conferences.html
redirect_from: "docs/conferences.html"
---

## Upcoming Conferences

### Agent Conference 2017
January 20-21 in Dornbirn, Austria

[Website](http://agent.sh/)

### ReactEurope 2017
May 18th & 19th in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule)

### React Amsterdam 2017
April 21st in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](https://react.amsterdam) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactamsterdam)

### Chain React 2017
Summer 2017, Portland, Oregon USA

[Website](https://infinite.red/ChainReactConf) - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainreactconf)

### React Native EU 2017
Fall 2017, Poland

[Website](http://react-native.eu/)


## Past Conferences

### React.js Conf 2015
January 28 & 29 in Facebook HQ, CA

[Website](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/) - [Schedule](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr)

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="//www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/KVZ-P-ZI6W4?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### ReactEurope 2015
July 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### Reactive 2015
November 2-4 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactive2015.com/) - [Schedule](https://reactive2015.com/schedule_speakers.html#schedule)

### React.js Conf 2016
February 22 & 23 in San Francisco, CA

[Website](http://conf.reactjs.com/) - [Schedule](http://conf.reactjs.com/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS0M8Q95RIc2lOM6nc77q1IY)

### React Amsterdam 2016
April 16 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands

[Website](https://react.amsterdam/2016) - [Videos](https://youtu.be/sXDZBxbRRag?list=PLNBNS7NRGKMG3uLrm5fgY02hJ87Wzb4IU)

### ReactEurope 2016
June 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorlLn2oZfgOJ-FUcF2eZ1A/playlists)

### ReactRally 2016
August 25-26 in Salt Lake City, UT

[Website](http://www.reactrally.com/) - [Schedule](http://www.reactrally.com/#/schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUD4kD-wL_zYSfU3tIYsb4WqfFQzO_EjQ)

### ReactNext 2016
September 15 in Tel Aviv, Israel

[Website](http://react-next.com/) - [Schedule](http://react-next.com/#schedule) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3BT8hh3yTTYxbLQy_wbk2w)

### ReactNL 2016
October 13 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands - [Schedule](http://reactnl.org/#program)

[Website](http://reactnl.org/)

### Reactive 2016
October 26-28 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactiveconf.com/)

### React Remote Conf 2016
October 26-28 online

[Website](https://allremoteconfs.com/react-2016) - [Schedule](https://allremoteconfs.com/react-2016#schedule)
